Hello everyone,

I am really sorry for how last minute this is, as the deadline for the submission is tomorrow by 23:59. The title of the talk will be "Shaping DELight: signal propagation in superfluid helium-4". This is the abstract for my talk at the DPG Fall meeting:

As large dual-phase noble liquid TPCs strongly constrain the parameter space for dark matter candidates above the GeV/c², lighter candidates remain largely unexplored. Probing this low-mass regime requires ultra-low energy thresholds, which solid-state cryogenic detectors can reach by measuring phonons, but their small target masses limit exposure and scalability. The Direct search Experiment for Light dark matter (DELight) will use a superfluid helium-4 target instrumented with large area microcalorimeters (LAMCALs), combining the low threshold of phonon-based detection with the scalability of noble liquids. In addition, the light nuclear mass of helium makes it an ideal candidate for light dark matter searches, allowing DELight to explore masses down to 100 MeV/c² with just 1 kg·d of exposure.

As DELight is in its design phase, detailed simulations play a central role to inform the design and construction of the final detector. This talk will present the current GEANT4 simulation framework, with particular focus on the propagation of the different signal quanta deriving from an energy deposition in superfluid helium-4: photons, excimers, and quasiparticles, i.e. phonons and rotons. In particular, the role of quasiparticle collection efficiency in motivating the choice of a high aspect ratio (or 'pancake') geometry for the detector cell will be discussed.

Any feedback is more than welcome, I will submit it tomorrow evening.

Cheers,
Francesc


Hi Fra,

The abstract reads very well. You might consider not starting the first
sentence with the word "as." Perhaps something like:

Large dual-phase noble liquid time projection chambers (TPCs) strongly
constrain the parameter space for dark matter candidates above the
GeV/c2, but can barely explore lighter candidates.

The second sentence is rather lengthy. You could split it into two
sentences: "... measuring phonons. However, their small ..."

Then again, to avoid beginning the second paragraph with "As...":

DELight is still in the design phase, and detailed simulations play a
central role in informing the design and construction of the final
detector.

Cheers
Sebastian



Hi Francesco,

adding to Sebastian’s comments, I would only add the following two comments:

1) “[…] but their small target masses limit exposure and scalability. […] (DELight) will use a superfluid helium-4 target […] combining the low threshold of phonon-based detection with the scalability of noble liquids.” → I would drop somewhere the monolithic aspect of the He scaling. SuperCDMS and CRESST are after all planning massive upgrades. But by increasing the crystal size PLUS the number of crystals. So maybe something like:
“[…] but they cannot be scaled up to the required target masses in a monolithic way […]”.

2) "allowing DELight to explore masses down to 100 MeV/c² with just 1 kg·d of exposure.” → "allowing DELight to explore masses down to below 100 MeV/c² with just 1 kg·d of exposure.”

Thanks!

Best, Belina
